---
title:  "Cal Hacks 2.0"
date:   2015-10-23 02:00:00
categories: [blogs]
tags: [events]
---
**Although it had its fair-share of “You’ve gotta be kidding me!” moments, it was definitely a memorable event and the organizers did a great job of holding it all together till the very end.**

I just got back from Cal Hacks which was held at California Memorial Stadium, the home of the Cal Bears at UC Berkeley. Attended by over 2000 hackers it was apparently the largest hackathon ever organized. Although it had its fair-share of “You’ve gotta be kidding me!” moments, it was definitely a memorable event and the organizers did a great job of holding it all together till the very end. I feel like a lot of attendees (including myself) did not appreciate the amount of teamwork, organization and coordination that went into putting up an event on such a large scale. So shout out to the entire Cal Hacks team! Lastly, for those of you wondering “A hackathon is where your crazy ideas become reality.”

With that out of the way, let’s dive into the app that my team built at the hackathon: “LET’S EAT : Uber for Restaurants“. The tagline can be a bit misleading but I promise it’s not unrelated. The purpose of the app is to act as an intermediary between the customers and restaurants to make the dining experience as efficient and streamlined as possible. So let me take you through the user experience for the app.

Ideally each restaurant will have a QR Code with information relating to their restaurant encoded in it, such as its location, website, phone number etc. A customer can make a reservation by scanning the QR Code either by walking into the restaurant or online. Once the scan is successful, the user is prompted to enter 3 very basic and much needed information which are Customer Name, Party Size and Phone Number. This sends the notification for a new reservation to the restaurant and the customer can be seated immediately if the restaurant has open tables available.  If not, the user doesn’t have to physically wait in the restaurant and can feel free to walk around as the restaurant will send a notification to the customers when their table is ready. This puts the customer’s mind to ease and with the Uber API integrated, the customers can even take an Uber back to the restaurant right within the app with just a click of the button. Once the customer is finished with the meal, the customer can pay on the app with one or multiple credit cards. This is possible as we integrated Stripe API to process the payments in a secure manner. And there you have it… your walk-in dining experience can’t get any easier than this!

Here is a video showing the working of the app: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WpOj1XBlZJk

And if you have gotten this far (which I dont doubt as I know this article is totally NOT boring), watch us demo it live: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GQTiC78Azhs
